1 INTRODUCTION

1.1 History and Evolution of the C Programming

C was the offspring of the 'Basic Combined Programming Language' (BCPL) called B developed in the 1960's at Cambridge University. 
B language was modified by Dennis Ritchie and was implemented at Bell laboratories in 1972. The new language was named C. 

There are several implications to remember:

1. Every data type in C can store only a limited range of values. 
For example, the int data type cannot represent all possible integers because it has a fixed size and limited range. 
Similarly, the float data type cannot represent all real (decimal) numbers accurately due to its precision limits.

2. When using a variable of a particular data type, it is important to understand what kind of values it can hold and what operations can be performed on it.
For instance, certain operators work on the binary (bit-level) representation of integers, such as bitwise operators. 
These operators are meaningful only for integer types and cannot be applied to floating-point numbers.

3. While declaring a variable, it is necessary to choose an appropriate data type based on the values it will store and the operations that will be performed on it. 
Selecting the correct data type ensures proper functioning of the program and prevents errors or data loss.

2. FEATURES OF C AND IT BASIC STRUCTURE

Characteristic of C is that its programs are highly protable, even more so than with other high-level languages.
A C program can be viewed as a group of building  blocks called functions. 
A function is a subroutine that may include one or more statements designed to perform a specific task. 

Sections in C program
1. Documentation Section
2. Link Section
3. Definition Section
4. Global Declaration Section
5. Main() Function Section
    {
        Declaration Part 
        Executable Part
    }
6. Subprogram Section
    Function 1
    Function 2
    .
    .
    Function n 

The documentation section consists of a set of comments. They are placed within the delimiters /* and */ (e.g., /*this is a comment*/).

The link section provides instructions to the compiler to link functions from the system library. 
The definition section defines all symbolic constants.

There are some variables that are used in more than one function. Such variables are called
global variables and are declared in the global declaration section that is outside of all the functions.

Every C program must have one main function section. This section contains two parts, declaration part and executable part. 
The declaration part declares all the variables used in the executable part. There is at least one statement in the executable part. 
These two parts must appear between opening and closing braces ({ and }). 
All statements in the declaration and executable parts end with a semicolon(;).

The subprogram section contains all the user-defined functions that are called in the main function. 
User-defined functions are generally placed immediately after the main function.

2.1. Simple C Programs

#include<stdio.h>
main()
{
    printf("Hello, World!\n");
    return 0;
}

2.2. Executing a C Program:

Various compilers, such as GCC (GNU Compiler Collection), are commonly used to compile C programs.
The first line is practically boilerplate; it will appear in almost all programs we write. 
It asks that some definitions having to do with the “Standard I/O Library'' be included in ourprogram; these definitions are needed if we are to call the library function printf correctly.
The second line says that we are defining a function named main. It is the function that will be “called'' first when our program starts running. 
The empty pair of parentheses indicates that our main function accepts no arguments, that is, there isn't any information which needs to be passed in when the function is called.
The braces { and } surround a list of statements in C. 
The line printf("Hello, world!\n"); is the first statement in the program. It asks that the function printf be called; printf is a library function which prints formatted output.
The parentheses surround printf's argument list: the information which is handed to it which it should act on. The semicolon at the end of the line terminates the statement.
printf's first (and, in this case, only) argument is the string which it should print. The string, enclosed in double quotes (""), consists of the words “Hello, world!'' followed by a special sequence: \n.
The sequence \n represents the “ 'new line'' character.
In general, a function may return a value to its caller, and main is no exception. The return value from main tells the operating system whether it succeeded or not. 
By convention, a return value of 0 indicates success.





















